---
zotero-key: V664IM3U
zt-attachments:
  - "223"
title: Neural Video Compression with Feature Modulation
authors:
  - Jiahao Li
  - Bin Li
  - Yan Lu
doi: 10.48550/arXiv.2402.17414
conference: xxx
tags: []
---
# Neural Video Compression with Feature Modulation

**文章链接**: [Zotero](zotero://select/library/items/V664IM3U) [attachment](<file:///home/ilot/Zotero/storage/N4HNN8Z4/Li%20%E7%AD%89%20-%202024%20-%20Neural%20Video%20Compression%20with%20Feature%20Modulation.pdf>)
**网页链接**: [URL](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17414)
## Abstract

>[!abstract]
>The emerging conditional coding-based neural video codec (NVC) shows superiority over commonly-used residual coding-based codec and the latest NVC already claims to outperform the best traditional codec. However, there still exist critical problems blocking the practicality of NVC. In this paper, we propose a powerful conditional coding-based NVC that solves two critical problems via feature modulation. The first is how to support a wide quality range in a single model. Previous NVC with this capability only supports about 3.8 dB PSNR range on average. To tackle this limitation, we modulate the latent feature of the current frame via the learnable quantization scaler. During the training, we specially design the uniform quantization parameter sampling mechanism to improve the harmonization of encoding and quantization. This results in a better learning of the quantization scaler and helps our NVC support about 11.4 dB PSNR range. The second is how to make NVC still work under a long prediction chain. We expose that the previous SOTA NVC has an obvious quality degradation problem when using a large intra-period setting. To this end, we propose modulating the temporal feature with a periodically refreshing mechanism to boost the quality. %Besides solving the above two problems, we also design a single model that can support both RGB and YUV colorspaces. Notably, under single intra-frame setting, our codec can achieve 29.7\% bitrate saving over previous SOTA NVC with 16\% MACs reduction. Our codec serves as a notable landmark in the journey of NVC evolution. The codes are at https://github.com/microsoft/DCVC.

## Comments

